

Your company has engaged a Managed Service Provider (MSP) named ACME Corp to migrate your Oracle database to AWS. ACME Corp was to support your company database with multiple dedicated Database Administrators (DBA).

After a significant investment of money and time, ACME Corp was able to migrate to AWS.

Unfortunately, the ACME Corp migration of the Oracle database was poorly done. The target architecture is not highly available and the operational costs are higher than originally projected.

You have been tasked by the CIO to migrate off of the Oracle database to a highly scalable, highly available, and fully managed database system.

In this challenge you will use the AWS Databae Migration Service (DMS) to migrate from the ACME Corp Oracle database to a shiny new Aurora MySQL database.
Summary

AnyCompany built the company database using Oracle. The database has not been built using a highly available architecture or in a way that will keep operational costs low.

The company CIO has tasked you with migrating the database from Oracle to Amazon Aurora MySQL.

After researching the options, you have determined that AWS Database Migration Service is the right tool for the job.

Using DMS will allow the source database to remain fully operational during the migration, helping to minimize downtime for applications that rely on the database.
The Challenge

Use the Database Migration Service (DMS) Migration Wizard to setup the Database Migration Task.

The Database Migration Task will replicate from Oracle to Aurora MySQL. The Credentials for Oracle and Aurora are in the challenge output section.

Oracle's Database port is: 1521

MySQL's Database port is: 3306

There is a Security Group for use with the Database Migration Instance: Replication-Instance-SG

The Oracle Database SID is: DMSSMPL

The Oracle Database Schema is: DMS_SAMPLE

Be sure to use the VPC named: DbMigrateJam

You do not need to use Schema Conversion Tool (SCT)
While setting up the "Tasks" for replication:

    Keep the default value for Target Table Operations Mode
    Include LOB (Large Object Binary) columns in replication by setting the Max LOB size

Monitoring DMS Progress

Under the DMS Task, click on Table Statistics. You will be able to monitor individual tables, number of rows inserted, and state.

The DMS Task may display an error about Replicating with Errors. It is possible for a DMS Task to successfully replicate a database while still encountering trivial errors that do not impact the data integrity.
How to validate the challenge?

In the Output Properties section there is a link titled: CheckURL. The CheckURL webpage will provide you with details of the challenge progress. After the DMS Task has completed successfully, a secret answer will be displayed. Cut-and-paste the secret answer to complete the jam challenge. The answer is CaSe SeNsItIvE, so ensure to copy the answer instead of re-typing it.
